Thank you for downloading Chao Resort Island(v1.3)!

Table of Contents
------------------
1 - Features
2 - Controls
3 - Credits
4 - F.A.Q
5 - Disclaimer


----------------
= FEATURES
----------------
Standard Features:

Playable Characters – raise your Chao as either Sonic, Shadow, Knuckles, Tails, Rouge or Cream
Egg Colors – purchase 13 different egg colors
Jewel Chao – 10 different jewel eggs
Multiple Fruits – feed your Chao different fruits to raise multiple stats
Toys and Interactive Objects – let your chao interact with different items to increase its intelligence level
Chao Alignments – Neutral, Hero, and Dark
Chao Abilities – from swimming, to flying, to running, to playing musical instruments
Chao Evolution - Chao can age and evolve into an adult
Chao Types - change your chao's appearance based on their stats
Chao Life Cycle - Chao have the ability to reincarnate or die based on how well they've been raised
*Chaos Drives – boost your Chao’s individual stats (Extension Version for Sonic vs Darkness Only)
24 Chao limit – raise up to 8 Chao per resort
Chao Breeding – Chao can produce offspring with inherited traits (color, tone, ability, performance)

Special Features:

Time and Season change – set based on your computer’s clock and calendar (+adjustable)
Hats and Accessories – dress your Chao to help them stand out from the rest
Gamepad Support - play with an external controller (Xbox 360/One Interface)
Chao Games – test your Chao’s skills through resort activities that correspond to each stat
Design Mode – design the Beach Resort with cool structures and gimmicks
Online Updates – get updates without having to manually download them (PC Only)
Bulletin Board – read my blog posts and update info in-game via online
Camera Mode – take pictures of your chao and save them to a photo gallery
Secret Events – receive an exclusive prize during events that occur throughout the year


----------------
= CONTROLS
----------------

KEYBOARD CONTROLS > > >

Arrow Keys - Move Player

"A Key" - Interact / Confirm (Menu)

"S Key" - Move Faster / Go Back (Menu)

"D Key" - Change Interaction Options

"ENTER Key" - Pause Game

"Z Key" - Open Chao Menu

"X Key" - Pick Item from Inventory

"P Key" - Quick Snapshot


GAMEPAD (XBOX 360/ONE) CONTROLS > > >

Left Stick/D-Pad - Move

"A Button" - Interact / Confirm (Menu)

"B Button" - Move Faster / Go Back (Menu)

"Y Button" - Change Interaction Options

"START Button" - Pause Game

"SELECT Button" - Open Chao Menu

"X Button" - Pick Item from Inventory

"RB Button" - Quick Snapshot


------------------
= CHAO RESORT ISLAND CREDITS
------------------

Creator & Programmer - Nefault1st



Graphic Artists - Nefault1st & Goncas23



3D Modeler/Texture Artist - Nefault1st


*most graphic material included such as backgrounds and sprites originate from official Sonic games © SEGA®



Music Composer - Nefault1st (alias "nekkosu")

Contributors:


Faseeh - 'Music theme' for Resort Center


Bluukio - 'Promo artwork' for Chao Resort Island


BlackAce - 'Programming assistance' for Chao Games


Neocraftz1553 - '3D model' of Resort Center (building)
BDPvPro - 'Feline Ears & Snorkel Mask sprites' for Tops and Accessories

QA Testers:


ChronosZX


TheValeev


AlexRevamped


Mors
BDPvPro

Resources:
Game Engine - Game Maker: Studio
Model Creator Program - Maarten Baert
Chao Voices/Sounds - Sonic Adventure 2: Battle
Chao Sprites - Sonic Advance/Sonic Advance 2
Chao Memory & Chao Janken minigames - Sonic Advance: Tiny Chao Garden 
Chao Evolution & Chao Mating Jingle/Arcade Games Music - Sonic Adventure 2: Battle
Special FX - Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Sky
SA2B Chao Mechanics/Formulas - Chao Island Website
Ambient Sounds - Sonic Adventure 2: Battle/Sonic and Sega All-Stars Racing

Arcade Games:
Chao Memory - Tiny Chao Garden (c) SEGA
Chao Janken - Tiny Chao Garden (c) SEGA

Toy Radio Music (by nekkosu):
Main Menu Remix - Sonic Mega Collection
Door Into Summer Remix - Knuckles' Chaotix
Item Shop - Sonic vs Darkness
Nightlite Paradise - Sonic vs Darkness (SEGA Carnival Remix)

Special Thanks to:
BlackAce
Bluukio
Danrock
TheValeev
Goncas23
SapphireChao
The Sonic Fan-Game Community
The Chao Island Community

--------------------
= CONTACT & UPDATES
--------------------

You can get the latest updates on the official Chao Resort Island Twitter page:
https://twitter.com/chaorisland

Need the direct download for available updates? Visit my N1st Games Update site:
http://n1st-update.my-free.website/

For questions or suggestions about the game, contact me here:
https://nefault1st.wordpress.com/contact/


----------------
= F.A.Q
----------------

Q: "Can I play this on my phone? Is there a mobile version?"
A: I do not have permission from SEGA to create mobile ports.

Q: "The game refuses to open."
A: (Windows) Right-click the .exe file and click "Run as Admin".
A: (Windows) You may need to open Task Manager and end the program under "Background Processes" before doing so.
A: (Mac) Please visit "https://nefault1st.wordpress.com/cri-mac-issues/" to view Mac related issues.

Q: "The game is completely silent. No sounds or music is playing."
A: Restart the application and make sure not to click out of focus while the game boots back up.

Q: "The game doesn't detect my controller."
A: It will not detect an external controller without having "Controller Type" set to "Gamepad" in the Options Menu. Please make sure to plug in your controller before setting it to that option.

Q: "I received an error message before the game crashed. What should I do?"
A: If you've come across any error message, please contact me. (See above for contact info) If you copied the message that appeared, please include it your the email. If you didn't get the message and can not re-attempt the event it occurred, please describe what happened in the email.

Q: "The game is lagging on my computer."
A: Your options are: Disable V-sync and Disable Weather FX.

Q: "Will there be continued support for this game?"
A: As of this update (1.3) there will no longer be any major updates; only bug fixes and possibly additional content.


----------------
= DISCLAIMER
----------------

This is a non-profit fan-game created by Nefault1st. The copyrights of the characters that appear belong to SEGA®. All registered trademarks and copyrights belong to SEGA® and Sonic Team®. "Chao Resort Island" and its developers are not affiliated with SEGA® or Sonic Team®.